Guides 2.0 - Actions# Request and Response objects (#117)
hanami/guides: content/v2.0/actions/request-and-response.md

---
title: Request & Response
order: 40
---

## Request

> In order to access the metadata coming from a HTTP request, an action has a private object `request` that derives from `Rack::Request`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to access the metadata coming from an HTTP request, an action has a private object called `request`.
```

Feels like too much info about implementation details so better to keep it simple.

> Here an example of some information that we can introspect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of information that we can get from the request object.
```

```ruby
# app/actions/books/index.rb

module Bookshelf
  module Actions
    module Books
      class Index < Action
        def handle(request, response)
          puts request.path_info                 # => "/dashboard"
          puts request.request_method            # => "GET"
          puts request.get?                      # => true
          puts request.post?                     # => false
          puts request.xhr?                      # => false
          puts request.referer                   # => "http://example.com/"
          puts request.user_agent                # => "Mozilla/5.0 Macintosh; ..."
          puts request.ip                        # => "127.0.0.1"
          puts request.env['HTTP_AUTHORIZATION'] # => "Basic abc123"
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Response

> As an addition to a request, we have a `response` object to our disposal, which derives from `Rack::Response`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next to the request object, we also have the `response` object, which can be used to return an HTTP response.
```

```ruby
# app/actions/books/index.rb

module Bookself
  module Actions
    module Books
      class Index < Action
        def call(params)
          response.session # => {}
          response.renderable? # => true
          response.charset # => utf-8
          response.format # =>
          response.action # => sandbox.actions.books.index
          response.env # => { [[RACK ENV]] }
          response.exposures # => {}
          response.format # =>
          response.cookies # => #<Hanami::Action::CookieJar:0x00007fdda29a3878>
          response.charset # => utf-8
          response.flash # => #<Hanami::Action::Flash:0x00007fdda29a32d8>
          response.allow_redirect? # => true
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

It has private accessors to explicitly set status, headers, body and more:

```ruby
# app/actions/books/index.rb

module Bookshelf
  module Actions
    module Books
      class Index < Action

>     

Reviewer: empty line

        def handle(req, res)
          res.status = 201
          res.body   = 'Your resource has been created'
          res.headers.merge!({ 'X-Custom' => 'OK' })
        end
      end
    end
  end
end

> # It will return [201, { "X-Custom" => "OK" }, ["Your resource has been created"]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# It will return the follow rack response:
#
# [201, { "X-Custom" => "OK" }, ["Your resource has been created"]]
```

---
title: Request and response
order: 40
---

> When a Hanami action is invoked, the incoming HTTP request and outgoing HTTP response are represented by the `request` and `response` objects provided as arguments to the action's `#handle` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Hanami action is called, the incoming HTTP request and outgoing HTTP response are represented by the `request` and `response` objects provided to the action's `#handle` method.
```
